---
template: SinglePost
title: USPS is vital and magical
status: Published
date: 2020-04-22T7:26:27
tags:
 - usps
 - delivery
 - coronavirus
featuredImage: '../images/usps-vital-magical.jpg'
excerpt: >-
 Delivery is more vital than ever and provides a way of connecting otherwise physically disconnected people. Losing the USPS would be a huge detriment to the country. Support the USPS - and send someone a letter today. It's still like magic. The USPS is in a dire predicament again. It's a vital service that should not be lost.

categories:
  - category: Notes
---
The USPS is in a dire predicament again. It's a vital service that should not be lost.

Esquire republished an article from 2013 about the [importance of the post office](https://classic.esquire.com/article/2013/2/1/do-we-really-want-to-live-without-the-post-office) and it rings very true today. The article mentioned Ben Franklin's time as the postmaster and it reminded me of the Walter Isaacson biography on Franklin. He writes about Franklin's rise from a postmaster in Philadelphia to his eventual ouster from the Postmaster General role in 1774. He of course went on to help lead the country to independence - after helping sow the seeds by connecting &  uniting the country via a single mail service that could deliver news to of any British malfeasance across the colonies.

Communication means have drastically changed since then and critical information is rarely disseminated via postal mail. However, it's still vital to be able to send & receive physical items across the country.

There are private options - and they are significantly more expensive. It's practically magic that you can handwrite an address on an envelope and have it delivered in a matter of days across the country or across the street, all for the price of a single stamp. The same thing with UPS or USPS would cost a minimum of $12 for a consumer.

Last week, the NYTimes ran a board editorial about [saving the USPS](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/14/opinion/usps-coronavirus.html). Like nearly everything else, it's become much more politicized than necessary and it's unclear of the service's future with budgetary issues exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic. 

Delivery is more vital than ever and provides a way of connecting otherwise physically disconnected people. Losing the USPS would be a huge detriment to the country. Support the USPS - and send someone a letter today. It's still like magic.
